724 Project Idea


April 5 or 6, 4 weeks, 1st draft due

Find a topic trending in twitter
Pull a number of tweets from there, see if I can do sentiment analysis
Then see if there is a way to find trends in the twitter users who have strong pos/strong neg
Can I tell anything about them?  Do they follow similar people?

Are there features about a twit that can predict the strength oof their polarization, like how many followers, how many ppl they follow, tweet frequency, etc.?

Possible workflow:

1. Pick Topic X
2. Collect 1000 tweets on X
3. Analyze the twit stats (# follows, # followers, tweet frequency, age of Acct, time of day, day of week, length of tweet, # impressions, # responses/retweets, is-retweet, …)
4. Analyze sentiment
5. Sentiment Score (can I get sentiment strength somehow?  This seems key)
6. Does it make sense to analyze the ppl they follow or who follows them?
7. Visualize my findings, draw any conclusions.  Make some sort of sentiment profile using some stats/features.
    1. See what’s in common for the top 10% and bottom 10% scores
    2. Histograms and quartiles, mirror them (disregard if super positive or super negative, just use their position on the range of scores and look at extrema vs neutrals)
8. If nothing pops out, maybe pick 2 topics that are political and 2 topics that are charged but not political, see if they have similar profiles.  Make a pipeline.
    1. Non-political: #chrisrocklive,
    2. Political: CPAC,

RE Sentiment Score:
Methods for Calculating Sentiment Score for Text
https://www.analyticsvidhya.com › blog › 2021/12 › di...

Dec 1, 2021 — In this method, we will calculate the Sentiment Scores by classifying and counting the Negative and Positive words from the given text and ...


Design your own Sentiment Score - Towards Data Science
https://towardsdatascience.com › design-your-own-senti...

May 4, 2021 — Sentiment Analysis in Python Pandas, create your own sentiment score using positive and negative words list.
‎Sentiment Analysis In Python... · ‎Data We Used · ‎Data Pre-Processing

(Source)
Sentiment scores are a metric for measuring customer sentiment. Scores can range from 0-100, where 100 is the most positive possible outcome and 0 is the least. Positive words are assigned a +1 scoring, while negative words are assigned a -1 scoring in speech analysis software.

Chat w/ Team and Dr. Zampieri:
Share the twitter query to run w/ the group, and let them help collect data.
Collect data by spring break and share. Send to professor so he can review the data.
Assimilate in a doc before midterm, so we can get feedback.  Get an outline and some visualizations ready.
Dozens of thousands. Between 10-20k. What features predict polarization strength.
Important feats,
